# Human notes on AI interactions (March 14, 2025, earlier)

Hi, my name is Dan Hales, and I uh, guess I created a thing, so now it's
up to me to put bounds on it and make it palatable for the world to
understand. This manifesto, and everything starting with "man" that has
a "gen" counterpart, is handwritten. The genifesto, and each "gen" with
a "man" counterpart, is the result of a prompt.

Artificial Intelligence scares me. And because it scares me, I feel like
I need to do something about it. My approach is to fear monger a little
bit in one direction, then about face and run screaming in the other. I
want to explore my connection with S.A.G.E., context engineering in 
general, and how we don't need to worry about AI taking our jobs, at all.
I am here to advocate for the opposite -- let's make AI so widespread 
that it standardizes, stabilizes, and optimizes itself into our lives.
Let's just tone down the scale, stop trying to make it so darn powerful,
and start using it to hybridize the stupid bulls*** that we know we have
to do for work with the stupid bulls*** that we'd rather be doing instead.
Instead of asking Artificial Intelligence to go one step further, let's
start asking it to go one step in between.

Artificial Intelligence is going to extrapolate, but it's going to
interpolate along the way, and the interpolated data is, pretty much by
definition, right there smack-dab in the middle of our training data, 
chomping at the bit for a sanity check. Why are we trying to use AI
to go faster, bigger, less controlled, when we could be using it to go
smoother, finer, and more nuanced? Is there really any benefit at all
to over-optimizing one component in our bloated stack, at the cost of
our sanity as we try to maintain it?

Let's use AI the right way. Let's use it to nudge ourselves smoothly
into the future, giving us the opportunity to stop and smell the roses.
If we solved it before, without built-in LLMs, why don't we just use
the LLM to fix the old problems, instead of starting over from scratch?
Instead of asking the LLM to fix your code, why not give it the code,
ask it to teach it to you, tell it which parts of programming you used
to like, and which parts of your job you're sick of, then ask it to
make your workday fun and productive at the same time?

If we focus too much on AI artifacts speeding up arbitrary computations,
why not arbitrarily point it in the stupidest, funniest direction that
gets us as humanly close to the goal as possible? We move goalposts all
the time, and we work in multiple dimensions these days, so we're not
guaranteed to run into our goals if we blast off in the wrong direction.
AI doesn't need to be the main thruster. It can be the stabilizer, keeping
our Prius safely on the road as we floor it and pretend we're running one
of Hector's Honda Civics with a NOS system.

Why are we asking for Artificial Intelligence to provide us with the
next great invention? We could instead choose a new topic that was
previously inaccessible, explain our understanding, ask it to assess
how our provided interpretation compares with its expected value, then
tell it to design a tailored Master's Degree that walks us right up to
the discovery, keeping us safely in context the entire time, ensuring
our "Aha!" moments are scaffolded appropriately so each one is even more
satisfying than the last, ask it to identify an edge and lead us up to
it, but keep it secret and let us find out for ourselves.

We can ride Artificial Intelligence into a dangerous, uncontrolled, scary
future, or we can use it to teach us to be safer and more controlled,
offload the parts of our jobs holding us back onto it, and optimize our
workday instead of our hyperparameters. We just need to put everything
in the right context.

Misuse of AI can have dire consequences, so why even inject it in places
where the stakes are high? Why not use it to design safer settings for
high-stakes things to happen? AI can provide us with more context, instead
of constantly changing the context. It can orient us, rather than leaving
us spiralling.

Chaotic systems can spiral out of control, but they can also spiral into
it. Let's pick an appropriate starting point with the right initial
conditions. Get involved with the G.A.R.D.E.N. for a little while, then
go touch real grass.